Hello and welcome to another exciting Blender tutorial. Today we're going to be making
solar flares. Let's get started. Okay, so the plan today is to try and make some solar flares. So
we're going to try and create the surface of a sun and then get some kind of fiery
solar flare thing. And the idea is to actually have this animated because, you know, it'd be
really cool to have a really easy and efficient way to make animated solar flares that are kind
of like, you know, firing off of a planet. Anyways, the goal is not to come up with like
a really heavy, complex way of doing it. I'm trying to come up with a simple way
because sometimes that can give you even the best, really give you the best result,
the simpler it is. Shift A, mesh, UBC, scale it up, grab a subdivision surface modifier. Where are
you? There you are. Right click, shade smooth. Okay, now let's get started. So first thing,
first thing we need is a sun. So we need a kind of a sun surface. All right, let's drag this out,
create our shader editor. Let's go to the shader editor.
And I'm going to click new to create a new material. And just come right up here. I'm going
to get rid of my view, turn all these off, and I'm gonna switch to rendered view. I'm gonna go
and make my world black. And let's put some space. So noise, color ramp, factor into the factor,
we're going to take the color into the color there. I'll turn the scale up to 600.
And I'll crunch it down. We go. Space, turn the strength up a little bit. All right, let's go back
to our object shader, click on the thing. All right, now, first up, we're going to grab some
noise. Noise, I think it's pretty much all we're going to need, to be honest, to make a sun. I'm
going to grab a color ramp. Let's see, we're going to take this, and I'm going to plug it into the
emission, because it's a sun. So the whole thing is just going to emit light. And I'll make it
very much like orange and red.
And I think I'll keep black, because black's a pretty key color as well. And a sun. I might add
one extra little pip here at the very end. All right, let's flip this around. Like, so take this
one, and I'm going to make this one bright and give it more of a red tone. All right, now, what
we'll do is take the scale way up, like that. Distortion, maybe? So let's go ahead and make this
a little bit darker. And then we're going to go into our reader settings. We're going to turn on
Bloom. And we don't really need screen space reflections, but let's turn them on anyways. And
I will turn up my emission strength. Now, let's take, I also want to go to my color management. I
forget to do this a lot, but I want to take it off Filmic and switch it to standard. Filmic adds a
bit of a flat contrast curve, just doesn't always give you what you want. Now, let's play with these
colors. Now that we've got the emission turned up, it's doing some, you know, it'll do some interesting
stuff with the colors.
So we can actually play around here. I can bring this up a bit more. So if I use a Fresnel texture,
and I grab a color ramp, a LaCasso, plug the factor into the factor, and we'll just, we'll
ignore everything else for the time being. And we'll jump back into just emission and see how
it gives me the brighter edges as we face further away from the camera. Switch to B-Spline, that
gives me an even smoother fall off. We could create a, let's create a vector
math node. And the reason why I'm using vector math and not just a straight math node is because
I want to create, I want to preserve the color. And remember, color has three values, red, green,
and blue. So it's a vector of three numbers. So if I do math with a vector of three numbers, then
it will preserve that vector. Now, I don't want to do multiply. So I don't want to multiply by
black. Maybe we could just add. Anyway, so what this is doing now is it's
adding in even more emission along the edges as we get close to the edge, right? By using a vector
math node, we're able to preserve color. And so we're adding this vector of three numbers, this
R, G, and B value. And I've set this top part of the ramp, color ramp, to have a vibrancy that's
over one. So it's right now it's 3.487. So it's like a super bright value. So that super bright
value is being added to these values. And so it's pushing it up.
So high now that we're getting a lot of bloom, but just on this outer bit, not as much in the
center, right? Now, the other thing we do is to try and create that effect where we've got the
corona effect would be to break this up somehow. Go for noise texture. And I'll create another
color ramp. And I'll take the factor into the factor here. And what I'll do is I'll bring this
up, increase the scale, and I'm going to create a mix. Oh, no, sorry. I'll create a vector
math node again. I guess we should mix RGB. We could be doing that.
I'm going to take this in here. And I'll set this to multiply. Turn it up. And I'll mess up the
scale. I don't know if you can see this. Like I'm seeing it, but there's like little bright spots.
You kind of see it moving. If we move this down, you can really see it. We got like this bit's
brighter and this bit's darker. Can you see that with the YouTube compression? One thing we can do
is with our noise texture, we can set this to 4D. And now we can take the W value and put some
animation into that. So the quickest way to do that is use the pound symbol and type the word
frame. This will automatically set up a driver. That's what the pound symbol does. It's like a
short key for setting up drivers. So it's going to set up a driver that links this value with
the frame number. But that's going to be a bit too fast. So if I hit it, hit enter, it's going
to be purple now. And now if I hit play, you see this is animating with that. But you can see it's
like way too fast. So we can add some math into this. So we can multiply by 001. And that's going
to slow it down. We're going to go a bit further than that.
So I'll try another zero. There we go. And I can come over to here and switch this to 40 as well.
Frame times 0.001. Let's try that. Yeah, now we're actually going to see... Can you see that
along the edges? So I'm going to go ahead and render view. Turn everything back on. I'm going
to actually make a curve, create a path. Bring it over here so I can see it. Rotate on the Y 90
degrees. Full stop.
Hold my keyboard to focus on it. I'll come to my curve controls here and open up geometry. And I'm
going to extrude it. Maybe like 0.5. And I'll rotate Z 90 so that it's facing me. Now I'm
thinking... See how we can curve this thing. And let's create a new material. Call this flare.
All right. We need to make some fire. Let's figure that out. I'll create... I'll put a noise texture
down. I'll put a veroni down.
And I'll put a musgrave down. I'm putting all three of these because I'm not really sure which
one's going to give us the right result. I'll grab a color ramp. Might start with the musgrave.
Put that into the factor. And I'll put this into the emission. Let's see. If I take my dimension
down and my detail up. Let's start with this. I'm going to take the noise. And I'm going to plug my
noise. Take the factor and I'll put it in the scale. Let me try... Let's grab a texture coordinate
node just in case.
I'll plug UV into it. I'm just experimenting at this point. Thinking about the approach.
FBM looks pretty good. Let's go ahead and get the right colors so that we can actually think
about this in context. My vibrancy up. Go for a bit of red. And now what we're going to do is
turn up the emission strength. All right. Next thing we can do is we can... Let's create another
color ramp. I'm going to plug this into the alpha channel. And I'll go ahead and set up transparency.
So I'll go to tools, now options. I'm going to turn on blend mode. We're going to go alpha. I'll stick
with alpha hash. Shadow mode, I'm going to go none. We don't want the shadows from this. And actually,
I might just do alpha blend. I think it'll work fine in this case. Turn off show back face. I'm
going to go to a roughness of like 0.5. First idea would be to go into edit mode. Grab the bottom
points and the top point and the bottom point. Grab them on the Y.
Pull them in there.
Like this. Shrink it down. Scale on the Y. You can see what I mean, as opposed to like working
with a particle system, right? So I've got exact control now over the shape of this. It's not there
yet. It's not working fully yet. But I can really sculpt how this thing's looking. Now, I might try
playing with taper a little bit. Let's see. Where is our... If I grab... I'm trying to remember
how taper works. Let me create another curve. I'll just create an ordinary path. I'm going to stick
it right there at my zero, zero point. And I'm going to select it as my taper object. Basically,
the way the taper object works is you create a curve and you move its points around in edit mode.
And it changes... It basically helps Blender figure out how to taper this object. You're
creating a curve that creates the profile of how the taper should flow. I'm going to come over here.
I'm going to create a mapping node. And I'm going to drop it in right here in between the V and the
vector. And I'm going to have a look at my scale. So I'm going to bring this down. So scale Y,
I'm bringing it down just a little bit because I like some of the stretch that's going on,
you know, because it looks like it's got some directional flow to it.
Okay. Let's get rid of these hard edges. So what we need to do is,
I'm going to grab a gradient texture and a color ramp. I'll just duplicate this one.
I'll plug the color into the factor. And then I'm just going to plug this into the emission
just so we can see it. And I'll unplug the alpha as well. And I'll drag this around.
I'll grab a texture coordinate node. And I'll use the UV. And I'll grab a mapping node.
And we're just going to rotate this.
UV. Possibly on the Y, 90 degrees. Let me just take this back out.
Okay. So not the Y. Maybe the X. Nope. Maybe the Z. 90 degrees. Flip this around.
Just looking for it. There we go. I'm all done. Shift and drag. So what I'm doing here is I'm
just kind of isolating because I'm using the UV. Remember this object was straight up and down,
right?
We twisted it. We've morphed it. So the UV was kind of the straight up and down thing. And it's
just the UV has been bent along with the geometry of this object. So when I use a gradient texture
using the UV coordinate, and I rotate it 90 degrees, and then just shift it a little bit,
I'm able to get this highlight just along the edge. So now what I can do is I can do this again.
So I can duplicate this and this. Plug the UV into here.
Vector into here. And then instead of 90, I could go negative 90. And let's plug this one in and just
find it. So put this back to zero. And I'm just going to position this. So it's kind of along the
edge there. Let's just use two of these. So color. Color. And we're going to go mix RGB. So shift A,
search mix RGB. Drop this down.
Put this one into here. This one into here. I'll switch this to add. Turn my factor all the way up.
And I'll pipe this into the emission. So now we've got this nice matte that sort of gives us the
edges of this thing. If we set this to ease, it'll be even more of a gradual fall off.
And it should look pretty good. Okay. So now what we can use is we can use this to mask out
the alpha channel. So this is our alpha channel. And we're going to put this in here. And we're
going to use our alpha channel. So what I want to do is I want to subtract this image from this
image, the one that we're using to drive our alpha. So I'll grab a mix RGB. And I'll stick this one in
here. This one into here. Where is it? There it is. And I'm going to go subtract. Turn my factor all
the way up. And then I'll take the color. Oh, sorry. That wasn't supposed to go into the emission.
It was supposed to go into the alpha.
I'm going to turn the vibrancy up on these to two. And then you can see as I play with this,
it's going to work. But we are getting some weird stuff. And it's because our emission
is still happening. Let's use it over here. So unplug this. I'll grab this, bring it right over
here, and just drop it here. And I'll feed this into the top. And I'll pipe this in here. So now
we're going to subtract out the edge first before we send it through.
And this allows it to be removed from the emission as well. So we don't get those weird artifacts.
Now let's pull these in a bit. So now you can see it's getting rid of that part edge for us.
All right. So now what you can see what we can do is we come over here to the mapping node.
And we can move it along the X. See how that creates a flow? It looks like the solar flare is
actually moving.
But we need to move this noise, the Musgrave as well. So what we need to do is have another
mapping that's kind of driving both of these. I'm going to make, let's see, what happens when we
change the dimension? Let's plug this vector into the Musgrave as well. I just want to see what it
looks like. Oh, that's pretty cool. I'm going to take, let's see, we'll take this location,
this X location. And we're going to do the pound symbol. We'll type in frame again and multiply it
by 0.0001.
And that will allow it to be driven by the frame number. I'll take the value down. Let's just try
0.01. Try 2. That feels a bit better. All right. Now what we can do is we can grab the, I'll take
this noise texture and I'll make it 40. And then I want to drive this W value in both the Musgrave
and the noise. So I can create a value node and I can plug it into the W of both of these. Now if I
move it, it's going to allow the flame to kind of evolve. So we can put another driver on this one.
So pound sign frame, and let's go 0.001. And that's going to cause it to evolve.
Now, what we need to do next is we need to figure out how to get this flare texture to change based
on where it's positioned. That way we can just take it and duplicate it, shift D, move it around
and have the texture change based on its position. So we don't end up with the same pattern on every
flare. And we also don't end up having to make a new material for each flare that we're going to
use. We want an easy system that we can reuse. So what I'm going to do is I need to add in some
values into the mapping node here. So I'm going to take my material and first thing I'll do is
I'll create another texture coordinate node. Get that out of there. Get that out of there.
Cause we don't have that in the scene anymore. All right. First thing I'm going to do is I'm
going to create another texture coordinate node. So I'll shift
D, duplicate that, bring it down. And next I'm going to create a new object
that I can use to drive this system. I'm just going to an empty and I'll put it in my scene.
I'll just stick it off to the side somewhere. And I'll go back to my material here and I'll
select that empty as this object here in the texture coordinate. Now what we're going to do
is take the location of this empty and we're going to use it to slightly change the texture of this.
So it's sort of like the position of this object in relation to this empty is how it's going to
change the texture. That's kind of how it works. So I'm going to grab a mix RGB node and I'm going
to take the vector of my mapping node and pipe it into the top socket. And I'll take the object
coordinate of my texture coordinate, which means it's going to take the location of this object
and I'll pipe it in here. I'm going to turn this off for now to set to zero and I'll take
the color into the vector and I'll take this into the vector as well. All right. Now what we're
going to do is we're going to take the factor system and I'm going to hold down shift and drag
it down a little bit. You can see they're changing and they're changing differently.
Like look how both these patterns are breaking up. I can go really far with it, but it's going
to change the overall look and design that we've got. So I just want to bring it in a little bit.
So we keep the design. But now if I move this around, you can see the texture is evolving.
This will give me that freedom to now place multiple layers and things won't look exactly
the same. Well, we finally landed it. We've got a sun that works. We've got animated,
sun flares and hotspots and everything. And I think the shader looks really, really cool.
So if you want to get a hold of this, this shader will be up on the Patreon, this whole project
file. So I put this up for our $10 patrons over there as long as well as this, the live stream
version of this tutorial, I'm going to put up there for everybody on the $4 level. If you wanted
to watch the entire live stream, it's quite a long one today, actually about two hours.
And yeah, also if you don't like Patreon,
just hold tight because eventually this will end up in one of my space packs, which I'll put on the
market store as well. So keep an eye out for that. Anyways, thanks for watching today. I hope
you really enjoyed this tutorial. Hope you learned some cool things. Please remember to hit that like
button and subscribe to the channel if you want to see more videos like this. And leave me a comment
that really helps a lot of people discover the videos if you leave comments. And yeah, check out
all the the extra sites like Patreon and stuff. Really appreciate the support. Consider hitting
that subscription button on YouTube and bring the little bell to get notifications and maybe
even join. Who knows? Lots of options for you. Thanks for watching. I will
catch you in the next tutorial. I'll see you later. Bye.